Let's see if we can get our character moving around now.
So if we hit play we can see what we've done so far is we've got an idle animation running as soon as
we turn on the game.
We can push the up arrow and he can run and we can hit the spacebar and he can jump.
All right.
So if we come back here and let's open up that script again.
And what we want is for our character to move forward when we push that up key.
So it's going to be in here in this if statement when we say if we get an input from the up key.
So I'm just going to put a line right here and we're using that move direction variable to push him
up for the jump and for gravity pushing down.
Let's go ahead and use that again for moving him forward.
So we'll use that move direction right here and we'll say that that's going to be equal to him moving
forward.
So here's transformed dart forward and we're going to multiply that that vertical axis here let's input
get access
and we're going to put vertical in here.
And then what we want to do is multiply this times some speed and we can create a variable called speed
that we can put in there.
And then in the inspector we can adjust the speed on the fly after testing to see how fast our character
should move.
So let's come up here and let's put a public float once again so we can adjust it in the inspector we'll
call it speed and we'll set it to I don't know how about 25.
Let's just try 25 and see how fast that's going to be.
There's really no way to know at this point in time we'll just put a number in there and see now just
like the run animation.
We're going to want him to be able to come to a stop when we pull our finger up off the up arrow.
So we need something down here in the else statement that will do that for us.
So what we can do is just take this whole thing and take this whole line.
Copy it paste it and instead of speed let's just put zero that'll stop him right.
Let's try that.
All right so let's save our script and let's go back to unity.
Make sure there are no errors down here.
Let's hit play and let's see what happens.
So I'll hit the up arrow and he goes it keeps going.
All right let's stop that.
Let's see what happens here.
Now the reason why he kept going.
It looked as if our else statement didn't work.
But the reason why he kept going is because he wasn't grounded.
He went off at the ground.
So what we need is to increase the size of our ground there.
And also it's going to be hard to see if he's moving if it's just plain white.
So let's do this let's select this plane and let's increase the scale about 10 in the X and 10 and the
Z.
Let's try that and then we really ought to have some sort of texture on here so we can tell if we're
moving.
Let's bring in an important new asset.
And I've got a checker pattern somewhere on my drive.
I'm going to bring that in.
I'm just going to search for checker and here it is.
I'll just take this and drag it in.
And there we go.
So now we've got this checkered pattern in our assets window here and I'm just going to drag that right
onto the plane and there we go.
All right.
If I select the plane and take a look at it's material here.
We could increase the tiling this x and y of tiling maybe increase that to three for each.
Here we go.
Yes so now I'm going to select my character and zoom in with the key is.
So now we can see him moving around on this ground plane and he won't fall off so easily.
So if I hit play again now if I hit the up arrow there we go.
He can run but he can't turn.
Just close in one direction and that's it.
All right.
So now we need him to turn.
How do we get him to turn.
Well I think we're going to need a couple of new variables and one of the variables we can actually
create right down here within our if else statements.
So let me go right here create a new line here and what let's do.
Let's create a new float variable and we'll just call it turn.
And what this is doing is looking for input
on the horizontal axis or those arrow keys the left and right arrow keys and where we go and we can
do that down here as well I believe we're going to need this down here and we go just copy and paste
that down to the else statement.
And now what we want to do is we want to transform instead of forward.
We want to transform rotate the rotate and we can say that for the x y and z axis we only want to rotate
around the y axis.
So for this particular command the X is going to be zero.
Right the Y will use that turn variable because that's what's getting the input.
We'll multiply that times.
Yet another new variable called Turn speed will have to create that up with the other variables.
You can see how it's red now and we'll multiply that instead of by the frame rate.
We don't want to use the possibly fluctuating frame rate for this.
We want to use time so we'll use time delta time and for these Z.
We just want to rotate 0 degrees like that.
So you've got the X Y and Z and we're just rotating around the Y.
So yes this turn speed we need to deal with don't we.
So let's copy this let's bring it up here and let's once again create a public float we'll call it turn
speed and we'll set it equal to.
No idea.
I'm going to set it to 60 and see how we do.
Here we go.
All right.
So now that we have this line of code we should just be able to take this and move it down here.
Now what that's going to mean is he's just going to slide on the ground and turn when he's in the idle
position.
A lot of character controllers like this are player scripts will have the camera move around the character.
When you move say the arrow keys or or something and then when you hit forward it'll push the character
or move the character forward opposite the camera.
All we're doing here is just having him slide around turn as the camera turns.
Or I guess the camera is actually following him as he turns.
So this is pretty stripped down but I just wanted to get us through setting up a very basic player script
here.
All right so let's save this and let's just test this out.
So we'll go back to unity makes sure we don't have any errors.
And if I hit play there he is we can go forward and if I hit the up arrow and one to the left or right
arrows I can turn him up but not fast enough.
Let me try that again.
Let me see how quickly I can turn him.
Oh he's moving pretty good he turns.
I want him to.
He keeps running off.
I want him to turn a little bit faster than that.
So what I can do is select the character and let's come down to turn speed I'm going to take this up
to 100.
Let's try that.
All right.
Oh and I wanted to take the speed down to 10 and let me try that.
So here he goes.
He's moving a little bit slower now.
There we go.
That's a little better.
All right.
So he's moving around and turning good now you can jump and see you can jump.
He's kind of still running after I hit jump.
Let's take a look at why that's happening.
I think that's because if we go back over here to the animator I think that's because we haven't turned
off exit time for all of these transitions.
We turned them off.
Let's move this down.
We turned off exit time here for these two transitions right.
But we didn't do it for these.
And we turned these off and the reason why I'm turning this off is I just want each of these clips to
be triggered immediately and looks like I've got exit time turned off there so I just didn't have them
turned off here.
OK.
So let's hit our play button again and let's start running.
And let's jump Yeah that's a little bit better.
I get a better reaction.
With that.
Yeah.
Good.
OK.
So the last thing I'd like to do is just add a few objects in here to the scene so he can run in and
jump on them.
So I just right clicked in the hierarchy and I'm going to go to a 3D object and I'll just create a cube
here and you going to scale it up.
There it is.
And I'm just going to move it around and he can run around and jump on these things a bit.
Well I just added a few obstacles here and that's all.
If I select my character and I hit the F key I can zoom back in to him and let's hit the play button
and just see how he looks.
There he is.
So now I can move maybe jump.
Yeah.
And let's turn around here and see what else we can find.
So we can just run around and jump on things and just test and play around.
Why not.
Well I hope this has been helpful for you.
I've had a lot of fun doing this.
This is my favorite part of the whole process seeing your character run around and jump on things.
So thank you for watching this game character creation series we've done a lot of work in Blender.
We've gone through the whole process of modeling sculpting read typology U.V. mapping texturing rigging
animation and finally importing into a game engine.
It's been a lot of fun.
I love doing this and I hope it was useful for you.
Well thanks for watching and see you next time.